JAY smiles.

The pilot laughs.

CALEB looks out of the window.

JAY chuckles.

The pilot gestures vaguely towards the white water.

Silence. Then he is startled a second time, by sudden commencement of
a THUMPING SOUND. Abrupt. Rapid. More or less rhythmic. From somewhere
nearby. He exits in the direction of the noise.

NATHAN starts unravelling his wraps.

NATHAN laughs.

Silence, as NATHAN drinks. CALEB feels he needs to say something. Looking around, he sees a collection of empty beer bottle on
the kitchen counter.

NATHAN doesn't answer. He's still drinking. The silence extends a little. Verges on odd. NATHAN puts his empty glass down.

Beat.

CALEB holds out his hand. NATHAN beams.

NATHAN indicates the desk - where a pen sits next to a
printed document.

CALEB glances back at NATHAN on the bed.

NATHAN waits.

Beat.

NATHAN shakes his head.

NATHAN smiles.

- what appears to be a neon coloured jellyfish. Tendrils
like axons, hanging in a black-blue liquid space. - the jellyfish is contained in a glass orb.
Which is held in an exposed cavity at the back of machined
skull-shape... ... which is part of a robot girl. Her name is AVA. She's an extraordinary piece of engineering. Proportioned as a slender female in her twenties, her limbs
and torso are a mixture of metal and plastic and carbon
fibre. The carbon fibre is charcoal colour. The plastic is cream.
The metal has the yellow-warmth of nickel. The shapes of her body approximate the form of muscle. There
are biceps, and breasts. Her hands have five delicate
digits. Her body-structure is covered in a delicate skin. The skin
is a mesh, in the pattern of a honeycomb. Like a spiderweb,
it is almost invisible unless side-lit. The one part of her that is not obviously an inorganic
construct is her face - which is that of a strikingly
beautiful girl. Created in a defined oval, from the top of
the forehead to just below her chin. Indistinguishable from
a real girl in its appearance and in the way it moves -
except for one thing. There is a very slight, almost imperceptible blankness in her
eyes. As we observe AVA, she fits a section of skull-plate to the
back of her head, which obscures the glass orb and jellyfish
structure. Then - - she half turns. As if having become aware of another
presence in the room. - the room in which AVA stands. AVA'S living area is made up of three primary spaces. The main area is the OBSERVATION ROOM. A large area,
arranged around a glass box, from which she can be viewed. At the back of the observation room, behind a sheet of semi-
opaque glass, is the PRIVATE AREA. This contains a bed-like
structure, a desk, a wardrobe, and a mirror.
And behind the private area is the GARDEN AREA. This is a
small decorative indoor garden, lit by lamps. The garden is
sealed off from AVA by a thick wall of glass. There are also several oval discs positioned around the room,
made of some kind of dark non-reflective material. These are
induction plates. And there is a chair, which faces the glass observation box. And facing that chair, inside the observation box, is another
chair. Beside which, CALEB stands. A beat - - as CALEB and AVA see each other for the first time. Then - - AVA starts walking. Revealing a secondary impact of her
engineering: how she moves. The unconscious precision of her
steps. The fluidity of her action. CALEB is transfixed as she covers the length of the room to
her chair. Then she sits down. And speaks.

CALEB sits opposite her. He is alone on his half of the glass. Nathan is nowhere to
be seen. But on the ceiling, and attached to the walls, on both sides
of the glass, there are several CCTV cameras. Trained
variously on CALEB and AVA. Lenses twitching. CUT BACK to AVA. She watches CALEB. Then cocks her head slightly to the side.

A beat. Then AVA repeats her question.

He glances at her. Observing.

AVA pauses a moment.

AVA pauses, as if considering this question for the first
time.

Beat.

CALEB says nothing. Just watches AVA. Again, lets the non-sequitur sit.

AVA also smiles. And suddenly - - there is a strong sense of something very human there. In
the way the smile lights up her face.

NATHAN nods. Approving.

NATHAN doesn't seem to hear.

NATHAN laughs.

NATHAN waves a hand.

NATHAN looks at CALEB blankly.

NATHAN still says nothing. CALEB presses on.

Silence.

CALEB pauses.

NATHAN smiles. Then lifts his bottle.

The glass of the bottles touch.

Darkness. The clock reads 01:32 am. The soft glow from the digital readout throws a light on the
remote control. Eyes closed. For a beat. Then his eyes open. He's wide awake. He turns over in the bed. Then turns back again. 2:28 am. CALEB lies watching the digital clock, as the numbers change
to 2:29 am. The TV at the foot of the bed switches on, suddenly lighting
up the room with cold TV glow. CALEB squeezes his eyes shut, momentarily dazzled by the
brightness. When his eyes open again, instead of seeing a TV station, he
sees a LIVE FEED from a CCTV camera. It shows the OBSERVATION ROOM. CALEB sits upright in bed. - CALEB watching AVA. - and varying CCTV ANGLES of AVA as she draws. The different TV channels flip between feeds from the various
cameras. CALEB is transfixed by the imagery. Her posture. Her legs tucked beneath the chair. The curve
of the breasts on her synthetic torso. The CCTV images become CALEB'S POV. The things he is
observing. CLOSE-UPS of her face. Her eyes. Her mouth. The way she bites her lip in an expression of concentration.
As when she smiled, there is a powerful sense in this tiny
gesture of her feeling sentient and human. Even more so because her face fills the screen, hiding the
mechanical parts of her form. Throughout, we never clearly see what AVA is actually
drawing. CALEB. Glazed. Then ABRUPTLY - - the TV goes dead.
And the digital alarm clock goes dead. And the windowless room is plunged into total darkness, and
total silence. As if the house had been previously filled
with a soft hum of power, which we were unaware of until it
was gone. In this, we hear CALEB breathing.

He reaches for the remote control.

AVA is sat at the table. Drawing.

He tries his card again.

NATHAN lifts his beer.

The JAPANESE GIRL doesn't answer. Just turns, and leaves.

NATHAN finishes his set, and stands.

NATHAN starts adding weights to curl dumbbells.

NATHAN laughs.

- CALEB and AVA facing each other through the glass of the
observation room. - one of the CCTV cameras that are observing them. - all the power abruptly shuts down, plunging the room into
darkness. - the CCTV CAMERAS. Which are unpowered, hanging dead. - CALEB, glancing round at the door to the room, where the
panel LED glows red. Watching CALEB with a strange intensity. The vague quality of blankness in her eyes is completely
gone.

AVA holds a piece of paper to the glass. The marks on it are
totally abstract. A mesh of tiny black marks, that swirl
around the page like iron filings in magnetic field patterns.

AVA looks disappointed.

She shakes her head as she takes the picture down.

AVA pauses a moment.

AVA looks at CALEB directly. Meets his gaze evenly.

And now CALEB is aware that AVA has just - gently - used
sarcasm. He looks at her, frowning slightly. And in response, in a very human way, AVA arches an eyebrow. CALEB laughs.

They lock eyes, just for a moment.

A long beat. A kind of processing pause for AVA.

CALEB hesitates. Back-tracks.

Beat.

He breaks off. Feeling the camera, watching.

Then the soft emergency lighting lifts up, and throws the
observation room into a completely different light. Weirder. Cast from LED strips on the floor, illuminating
CALEB and AVA's faces from below. In the low light, we see a detail of AVA'S honeycomb skin-
mesh that we were not able to see before. It glows, soft, like phosphorescence - and this changes the
way we see AVA. Where the mesh is almost invisible in bright
conditions, it is now the dominant describer of her form. So
instead of seeing AVA as a primarily robot structure, we now
see the curves and lines of a naked female body.

CALEB turns. Sees the way AVA is looking at him.

CALEB frowns.

AVA presses her hand to the glass.

When CALEB looks back at AVA, she has returned to her
previous posture, facial expression, and manner. She looks directly at CALEB, and talks, as if continuing a
conversation they have been having.

AVA smiles.

CALEB takes his napkin, and leans down to start wiping the
floor. Then KYOKO appears beside him. She holds her hand out for the napkin.

They drink.

NATHAN smiles.

ON NATHAN'S GLASS - refilling. The view through it, of
CALEB, disappearing in the red liquid.

Clean-shaved, CALEB walks into his bedroom. On the TV, the live feed of AVA'S room is playing - though
she is not in shot. Subtly, CALEB'S gaze flicks to different points around the
room. To the full-length mirror on the wall. The high vent for the air-conditioning system. The TV itself. CALEB hesitates for a moment. Then pulls on a T-Shirt. Picks up his ID card. And exits. - the TV. AVA walks in to the locked-off CCTV shot. She walks towards an induction plate, rests her hand against
it, and starts charging herself. As she does so, almost imperceptibly, the lights dim, and a
slight static charge passes over the television screen.

Everything in the frame is black and white. CLOSE UP on AVA'S meticulous abstract pictures, scattered on
a table. CALEB is looking at them. REVEAL he is in the observation room. But he is on AVA'S side of the glass. And AVA is on his side. Seen through the opaque glass that
divides the private area from the observation area.

CALEB walks to the connecting corridor, and enters it.

The door leads CALEB straight out into the gardens. In black and white, the backdrop of mountains and clouds look
like an Ansel Adams. A short distance ahead of CALEB, standing on the grass, he
sees AVA. She locks eyes with him. Smiles. He starts to walk towards her.

- CALEB waking, in his dark bedroom. Lit by light from his TV. Where AVA lies on her bed, seeming to be asleep. CALEB sits up. Thinking. Perhaps replaying his dream. Gazing at AVA'S
resting form. Then reaches for the remote control on the bedside table, and
switches the TV off.

CALEB and AVA face each other. AVA is holding up a piece of paper to the glass. In the PRIVATE AREA, she opens a wardrobe space, which
reveals clothes, and a hair-piece. Then she starts to get dressed. First a summer dress. Then stockings. Then a long-sleeved cardigan. She checks her reflection in the mirror, and adjusts the
clothes slightly. Making sure that as much of her robot form
is covered as possible. Then she puts on the hair-piece. Short, brown hair. Finally, she makes a subtle adjustment to her face. Similar
to putting on make-up, she adjusts the intensity of her own
skin tones. Her lips redden. Her cheeks blush slightly. A
discreet line of black extends like mascara around her eyes. Watching the ghost shape through the opaque glass. As she starts to move back towards him, CALEB recloses his
eyes. And keeps them closed, as he hears her approach.

The drawing is constructed with the same tiny black ink marks
as before. But now they have ordered into a coherent black
and white image. It depicts AVA'S view OF THE ENCLOSED GARDEN IN HER ROOM. Beat.

She takes the drawing down.

AVA thinks a moment.

Another beat. On AVA. Looking at CALEB. Then -

AVA hesitates.

He closes his eyes. AVA stands, and walks to the PRIVATE AREA at the back of the
observation room. As she walks, CALEB reopens his eyes.
Through the semi-opaque dividing glass, he watches her. The
ghost image.

CALEB opens his eyes. And sees AVA. Transformed. By covering the robot form of her chest and arms and legs,
and adding the hairpiece, she has taken a huge visual step
towards appearing human.

AVA lights up.

AVA watches CALEB closely.

NATHAN sits opposite.

CALEB breaks off. NATHAN keeps watching. There is a sudden sense that NATHAN
is on the money. On some level, that was CALEB'S real
question.

NATHAN smiles slightly.

NATHAN lets the question hang. Behind them, KYOKO prepares dinner in the kitchen area.

NATHAN shrugs. Insouciant.

NATHAN clicks his fingers.

In her room, AVA stands in front of the mirror. She is wearing the summer dress she put on earlier. Checking her reflection from different angles. Subtly girlish. Unself-conscious.
Then - - she starts to take the dress off. Throughout the narrative, we have almost only ever seen AVA
in an unclothed form. But now - having been clothed - the
undressing seems to make her naked. And the act itself feels charged. Sexualised, in the way the
clothing is unbuttoned, and dropped, and her shape is
revealed. Finally, once she is completely undressed - - AVA turns. And glances. Straight at the camera.

In his bedroom. Watching AVA, at this exact angle.

Beat.

NATHAN laughs.

NATHAN puts the face back on its armature. NATHAN moves to one of the skull forms. He moves the curved top plate, revealing the skull cavity. Inside is an ellipse orb, the approximate volume of a brain,
filled with what looks to be blue liquid. Suspended in the
liquid is the neon jellyfish we glimpsed previously in AVA.

NATHAN nods.

NATHAN gestures at the room around them.

CALEB looks at AVA through the glass. We watch him. And stay on him.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Beat.

Reveal the monitor screens on the desk. Some show live feeds from CALEB'S BEDROOM and BATHROOM, and

NATHAN is watching the feed from the OBSERVATION ROOM. Where AVA and CALEB are sat, either side of the dividing
glass. Having the conversation we have been hearing. We pick up the conversation from NATHAN'S distanced and
voyeuristic POV. Locked-off CCTV. Voices played through
speakers.

NOW REVEAL - one of the other monitor screens.
It shows an angle on AVA we have not seen before. From this
viewpoint, we can see something just below the frame of the
observation window, on AVA'S side of the glass. A small induction plate. On this angle, we see AVA rest her hand against it. At that moment - - the screens simultaneously go black. All lights die. Another POWER CUT. In the reflection from the dark monitor screens, we can see
NATHAN'S face. It remains frozen. Expressionless. Then he reaches for his pen. Jots down a few words on a post-
it. Then walks to the wall of notes, and sticks it on.

- the observation room. In the emergency lighting, CALEB and AVA face each other in
silence. CCTV are lifeless. AVA glows softly.

AVA lifts her hand to reveal a disc on her left palm.

AVA raises her right hand. She touches it against the glass.

- KYOKO'S naked form. The camera settles over her face. And we see she's not sleeping. Her eyes are open. But she's completely motionless. Her gaze fixed somewhere in abstract distance. She doesn't feel alive. She feels dead. But eventually she blinks. Gazing at his dead monitors, reflected in the screen. Moments later, the POWER comes back on. The screens flick back to life, replacing NATHAN'S
reflection, revealing CALEB and AVA in the observation room.

NATHAN glances over at CALEB.

NATHAN waits.

Beat.

- CALEB standing in the shower. He shuts his eyes. - images of AVA.
Torso, hands, mouths. - AVA and CALEB about to kiss. But their lips never
contacting. - CALEB opening his eyes. He exhales. Then switches off the taps.

CALEB enters his bedroom wearing boxer shorts. The TV plays the live stream from the observation room. On the screen, we can see AVA, sitting at her table, drawing. As CALEB pulls on a T-shirt - - behind him, on the TV, we see AVA suddenly look round. A moment later NATHAN enters the frame. There's no volume on the TV, so we can't hear their exchange.
Only see it. CALEB is unaware of the silent exchange behind him. As NATHAN and AVA talk, NATHAN reaches out to AVA. His hand
touches the side of her cheek. The gesture is not quite
neutral. Feels predatory, but not unambiguously so. Then he tugs at the material of her shirt. Pulling up the
sleeve from her wrist. Revealing the robot structure of her
arm. AVA pulls away. Tugs the material back down - - and NATHAN takes a corrective movement step to regain his
balance. Showing that he is drunk. Only now - - CALEB turns. And freezes. Seeing the television. On the screen, NATHAN reaches down to the table. He picks up the drawing AVA was working on, and he looks at
it for a moment. They exchange a few words. Then abruptly NATHAN rips drawing in half. Drops it on the
floor. Then turns, and exits. Leaving AVA alone.

KYOKO turns at the sound of her name, but doesn't respond.

She doesn't answer.

CALEB walks over to her, and takes hold of her wrist.

KYOKO looks at CALEB. Then, in answer to his question, she reaches up to the top
button of her shirt and pops it open. CALEB releases her wrist at once.

She undoes the next button, and pulls open the shirt,
revealing her bare chest.

NATHAN makes his way to CALEB, and rests a hand on his
shoulder.

NATHAN smiles back at NATHAN, smiling, alcohol-glazed.

CALEB'S room. Lit only by the glow of the television. CALEB is not in the bed. He's on the armchair. Making
himself stay awake. Watching over AVA - - who stands in her room, against the wall, facing away from
the CCTV camera, with her arms wrapped around herself.

CALEB and AVA sit, observing each other through their own
reflections.

CALEB thinks for a moment.

AVA nods.

CALEB concentrates.

AVA nods.

CALEB takes a breath. AVA keeps watching.

CALEB waits. AVA smiles slightly.

Beat.

AVA reacts.

Beat.

There's nothing CALEB can say. AVA stares into middle distance for several moments. Then she stands. Then walks to the other side of the room. Picks something up
from her table. Then she returns. Holding two pieces of paper. She walks up to the glass, and holds them up together. It's the drawing she was doing last light. The drawing that
NATHAN tore in half. The drawing is of CALEB.
A simple portrait. Honest, and accomplished. She takes down the drawing. And rests her hand on the console. And - - the lights fail. The cameras die.

For a moment, neither CALEB nor AVA react. Then -

Beat. Then:

NATHAN shrugs.

NATHAN shakes his head.

Beat.

AVA sits alone.
Watching the door on the other side of the glass, waiting for
it to open. It remains closed. Beats pass. Then - - unexpectedly, it opens. Revealing a silhouette figure. AVA reacts instinctively.

No. Wrong silhouette. AVA frowns. KYOKO stands in the door-frame. For a moment, the two look at each other.

On the MONITORS - - the windows start to collapse. Leaving the default screen. The waterfall wallpaper. CALEB reaches for NATHAN'S KEYCARD, and is about to remove it
from the slot - - when something makes him hesitate. His eyes have gone to the folder icon on the right hand side
of the screen. It is titled DEUS EX MACHINA. CALEB removes his hand from the keycard. He double-clicks the folder. It expands into a window, which contains a long list of sub-
folders. Each sub-folder is named after a girl. JASMINE, KATYA, JADE, LILY, AMBER, KYOKO, and AVA.

CALEB randomly clicks one of the girl's names. LILY. LILY'S folder expands into a window, stacked with thumbnail
images of a girl. CALEB clicks on one of the images at random. - a CCTV film-clip starting to play. It shows LILY - an android of similar design to AVA - sitting
with her head bowed. Rocking backwards and forwards, in a
gently autistic motion. In the corner of the room, NATHAN leans against the wall,
watching. - CALEB collapsing the LILY menu, and opening KATYA. A new film clip. KATYA. Who is limp. Lifeless. NATHAN is dragging her towards the induction plate. He holds
her up, trying to force her to charge. But nothing happens. NATHAN drops KATYA, and she folds to the floor. CALEB opening JADE. The next film clip. NATHAN stands in the glass box inside the observation room - - watching JADE. A beautiful Asian android girl. They are talking, but we hear no audio. Some kind of
argument, which escalates fast. JADE starts shouting. Then she approaches the glass and starts to hit her hands
against it. The glass doesn't break. One of JADE'S arms has broken under the force of the blows.
The hand flails limply where the carbon fibre has splintered
at the wrist. Then the other breaks. Throughout, NATHAN simply watches impassively.

CALEB enters his bedroom. Shuts the door. AVA is on the TV. Sat alone in the observation room. CALEB looks at her. She looks at him. He switches the TV off. Lies on the bed. On his back. Stares at the ceiling. Of KYOKO removing her skin.

AVA sits alone in the observation room. The door opens. CALEB appears, wearing a long-sleeved shirt. Enters. He sits opposite her, on the other side of the dividing
glass. A strange noise escapes from AVA'S mouth. A kind of sob. Curtailed.

They exchange a look. Then AVA lifts her hand, and rests it against the induction
plate on the console below the window. A final beat. Then the POWER DIES.

CALEB breaks off.

Silence.
Then the POWER RETURNS. The lights come back. AVA and CALEB stare at each other.

NATHAN smiles.

NATHAN laughs.

CALEB walks over to the kitchen area, and pulls two beers
from the fridge.

CALEB walks back to NATHAN. Extends a hand. Holding a
Peroni. But NATHAN doesn't take it.

NATHAN shrugs.

Beat.

NATHAN and CALEB stand in front of the computer. On it, a clip of film is playing. It shows the scene that CALEB witnessed two nights before, of
NATHAN entering AVA'S room, and an exchange between them.
But whereas the first time the sound was muted, this time we
can hear the audio. NATHAN stands above AVA. Drunk. AVA is sat at the table, with her drawing.

A beat. Then abruptly, NATHAN rips the picture. He lets the two pieces fall to the floor. As AVA reaches for them, NATHAN turns. And exits.

... then FREEZES the film again. This time, ON THE SCREEN: AVA is reaching for her torn picture. And NATHAN is reaching out with his hand. And his hand is holding something.

NATHAN unfreezes the image. And we quite clearly see NATHAN place the object on AVA'S
bookcase. NOTE THAT on the two previous occasions we have seen this
clip of film, we will have seen him do this action. But not
register it, instead reading the action as him drunkenly
using the shelf to steady himself. CALEB stares at the monitor for a few moments. Then turns. He walks towards a chair. And sits down. As he does so, NATHAN has started to play another clip. CALEB can hear the audio.

NATHAN hesitates.

CALEB stares into the brightness above him.

Beat.

AVA'S head turns to the door of her room. Where, discretely, the LED by the keycard plate glows blue.

NATHAN frowns.

Beat.

NATHAN freezes.

At that moment, the POWER COMES BACK ON. The lights rise. The computer monitors come back to life. Revealing something. On the CCTV feed of AVA'S room, the door is open. And on the feed of the GLASS CORRIDOR - - AVA is walking down it. NATHAN freezes as he sees her.

NATHAN enters the GLASS CORRIDOR. He sees, directly ahead of him, at the far end of the
corridor, AVA and KYOKO. They stand together. KYOKO'S mouth is by AVA'S ear, as if telling her a secret. Her lips are open. They don't move. CLOSE UP to KYOKO'S lips, we hear a hiss of static, with soft
pulses of noise buried inside. Then the two robot women become aware of NATHAN'S presence. They turn to face him. A beat. Then AVA starts walking towards NATHAN. NATHAN'S fingers flex around the metal bar in his hand.

AVA doesn't slow or react.

AVA has reached halfway down the corridor. She stops walking.

CLOSE UP. On AVA. Then AVA breaks into a run. Sprinting in NATHAN'S direction.

AVA impacts NATHAN, and they fly backwards. Then land hard. NATHAN gets to his feet first. AVA tries to rise too. And he kicks her extremely hard in the torso. She is knocked back down. NATHAN glances around. There is no talking. Just NATHAN'S laboured breathing. Then he walks back to AVA, looking down at her. He swings the metal bar. AVA raises her left arm defensively - - and shockingly, the bar smashes through it. Crushing the
delicate mesh, shattering the carbon fibre bone structure.
Breaking the arm half way down the forearm.

As NATHAN stares down at KYOKO - - reveal that AVA has got to her feet behind him. She pulls the knife out of his back.
Feeling this happen, NATHAN turns - - and AVA pushes the knife into his chest. NATHAN stares at AVA. Then takes a slight step away from her. And sits down heavily on the white carpet. Crimson drips onto bleached fibre. Beats pass on this strange image: KYOKO sprawled on the floor with her broken face. NATHAN sitting upright, his upper torso now drenched in
blood. AVA standing. Watching NATHAN. After a few moments, NATHAN slumps sideways. And stops breathing.

CALEB sees this same view, on the CCTV camera feed, on
NATHAN'S monitors. Then - - AVA starts walking. As she walks, she discards the broken section of her arm. On the cameras, CALEB watches her progress through the house.
Down the glass corridor. Through the threshold to NATHAN'S
private quarters. Then - - CALEB raises his head from the screens. To see AVA standing at the open door to NATHAN'S study. AVA and CALEB look at each other. - the monitors. The CCTV feed of AVA walking down the connecting corridor to

AVA leaves, closing the door behind her.

AVA stands in NATHAN'S BEDROOM, in front of the previous AI
androids. She is unclothed. She gazes at the androids. Then she removes the arm from JADE, and replaces her own
shattered limb. She takes a moment to see how the new limb looks in the
mirrors. Then she starts removing sections of JADE'S skin. And putting it on herself. The skin sucks itself to the honeycomb mesh, as if the mesh
and the underside of the skin are magnetised, attracted to
each other. As a large section of skin is removed from her torso, JADE -
who has been motionless until now - turns her head slightly
to look at AVA. They exchange a glance. Locking eyes for a moment.

Transfixed, CALEB watches AVA'S metamorphosis. First through the glassed-off garden that separates Nathan's
study from his bedroom. Then, when he can't get a clear view
through the foliage, on the monitors.

The glow of honeycomb mesh vanishes as AVA applies the last
section of skin. Nothing of her robot forms remains. She closes the door on JADE, and now sees herself in the
mirrored door on JADE'S cabinet. AVA sees a naked human girl. And is hypnotised by the sight
of herself.

CALEB watches as AVA - now clothed - walks back down the
connecting corridor to the study... ... then passes straight by his door.

CALEB gets up. Goes to the closed door. Tries to open it. There is a red LED light by the keycard plate. Locked. He swipes his card, with his photo ID. The red light remains.

He runs back to the monitors. On them, AVA has reached the GLASS CORRIDOR.

AVA stands in the glass corridor. She looks at KYOKO'S body for a moment. Her expression is unreadable. Then she walks up to NATHAN'S body. There, she stops. Crouches down. And takes NATHAN'S bloodstained keycard out of his pocket. Then stands. She walks straight to the elevator. Uses the KEYCARD.
And steps through.

AVA walks up the glass staircase from the main room.

AVA steps outside for the first time. Into the garden.

From the garden, we can see CALEB through the glass of the
circular window, shouting Ava's name. On our side of the glass, there is silence. AVA walks away.

AVA stops. Absorbing the sunrise, the view of the sky, and the
mountains. Then the moment is broken by a sudden pulse of rotor blades - - as the shuttle HELICOPTER flies directly overhead.

The helicopter touches down. The rotors stop. And the PILOT climbs out. Takes off his helmet. Looks at the girl standing a few metres away. Nothing betrays that AVA is anything other than a pretty girl
in her early twenties. AVA turns as he approaches her.

- AVA'S precise POINT OF VIEW. Looking at the PILOT. The image echoes the POV views from the computer/cell-phone
cameras in the opening moments of the film. Facial recognition vectors flutter around the PILOT'S face. And when he opens his mouth to speak, we don't hear words. We hear pulses of monotone noise. Low pitch. Speech as pure
pattern recognition. This is how AVA sees us. And hears us. It feels completely alien.

AVA and the PILOT finish talking. We are too distant to hear their conversation. But whatever is said, a few beats later, the PILOT goes the
helicopter and opens the passenger door, to allow AVA to
enter. Then he goes back to the PILOT'S door. Gets in. And the rotor blades start to turn.

- a busy traffic intersection. Somewhere in North America. In the crowd, we glimpse AVA. Just for a moment.

